# ClassProject

The run_analysis.R file is r script that is meant to meet the requirements of the Coursera.org
class, Getting and Cleaning Data.  This class is part of a series of classes designed to prepare a student in the various 
facets of Data Science.

The class requires a course project which states:
You should create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following. 
Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the 
average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

The project requires the student to download a data set which can be found at
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
on the world wide web.

Within the downloaded zip file one will find .txt files that hold the raw data which will be manipulated by the 
run_analysis.R script.  The files that will be used are: X_test.txt, Y_test.txt, subject_test.txt, X_train.txt, 
Y_train.txt, subject_train.txt. These file must be placed in the working directory.

The data in the Inertial Signal folders will not be used by the run_analysis.R script.

Additionally included in the previously mentioned zip file will be a README text file, features info text file, 
features text file and an activity file.  All of which can provide background information on the information 
generated by the run_analysis.R script

The raw data is presented in two groups: training and testing.

The run_analysis.R file will:

the run_analysis.R script will intially work with the testing observation: -- 
an empty dataframe will be created called test_df which will hold testing observations --
the test_df data frame will specify column names of 
raw data row number, test or train, subject, activity, mean, standard deviation -- 
the script will read measurement data text file into a data frame called X_test_df -- 
the script will read the activity text file into data frame called Y_test_df -- 
the script will read subject text file into data frame called subject_df -- 
the script will put the subject df into test_df subject column -- 
the script will put the word "test" in all rows of the column train or test -- 
the script will calculate the mean of each row of the test_df -- 
the script will put mean of each row of raw data into mean column of test data frame -- 
the script will put the activity df into test_df activity column -- 
the script will use a for loop to replace activity code with actual activity name -- 
the script will compute the standard deveiation of each row of X_test_df -- 
the script will put standard deviation computations into standard deviation column of test_df -- 
the script will create an array of a sequence of numbers and put those numbers into Raw data row number column of test_df

the above will be repeated for training observations

the script will combine testing data frame and training data frame into a combined data frame

the script will create an empty dataframe to hold summarized data naming the columns and the rows -- 
the script will create an array for the choices in the activity column -- 
using a for loop for each column of the newly created data frame -- 
the script will create a subset for each subject of the combined data frame -- 
the script will loop through the six separate activities of the combined data frame of each subject being examined -- 
the script will create a subset of each activity being examined of each subject being examined -- 
the script will calculate the average standard deviation of all the tests of the activity/subject being examined -- 
the script will calculate the average mean of all the tests of the activity/subject being examined -- 
the script will put the average mean in the correct cell of the summarizing data frame -- 
the script will put the average standard deviation in the correct cell of the summarizing data frame -- 
the script will print the summarizing data frame to a text file residing in the working directory
